# skills
Data Science Profile

According to O'Neil & Schutt (2014), a proficient Data Scientist is likely to have competencies in several analytical domains. When assessing my strengths and weaknesses, I found that these domains and thus my competencies clearly overlapped. To facilitate the identification of strength and weaknesses for prospective roles, I created a Data Scientist competency profile using python (see GitHub for code). From Figure 1, notice that my strengths in analytical and critical thinking are the highest. This is likely due to having a solid foundation in Math and statistics skills as a result of my education and employment background. Recently I've been concentrating on refining my Machine Learning and Data Visualisation capabilities. Delivering presentations has been an integral part of my MSc degree, which has provided ample opportunity to improve my communication skills, thus, I would like to believe that my communication is effective and have reasonably strong interpersonal skills. I pride myself in paying attention to detail and accuracy. My focus on problem-solving coupled with creativity and innovation enables me to deliver my level best every time. For example, as a result, I have been awarded the School of Computing Award for best Industrial Expertise Project. However, I feel like my Domain Expertise could be strengthened.

One of my projects working with Hadoop (Hortonworks Sandbox) involved sentiment analysis. The project entailed using Flume to acquire live twitter data, processing it within Hive and Solr and then employing Banana Dashboard to visualise tweets. I credit my strength as a supportive and dependable team-player and building rapport for the project's success. As part of my thesis project I am developing an interactive dashboard using a combination of open source and proprietary visualisation software (tableau). The dataset comprises of monthly sample sizes of over 10 million de-identified NHS prescriptions, (totalling over 1 billion rows of data for the study period) from which I'm extracting and examining variables for eight chemical preparations according to the British National Formulary. As part of the ensuing statistical analyses (using SAS), I employed PCA to highlight variations and help uncover patterns in the dataset. From previous data mining projects, I found this in conjunction with EDA usually facilitates smoother exploration and visualisation of the data. Whilst in practice I haven't yet worked with D3.js, I do however understand its theoretical aspects, which will no doubt help when I come to implement visualisations in D3.js. Whilst R isn't my statistical software of choice, I'm learning how to apply my SAS skills to Pandas. I'm finding that using Pandas over NumPy alone, offers greater efficiency when working with numerical data in Python.
